IMPLEMENTATION.md, before:

# Implementation Summary

This document summarizes the implementation of the Office Lights Control System.

## Completed Steps

### ✅ Phase 1: Project Setup (spec/01-project-setup.md)
- Go module initialized (`github.com/kevin/office_lights`)
- Project structure created with driver directories
- MQTT client library installed (Eclipse Paho v1.5.1)
- Go upgraded to v1.24.0

### ✅ Phase 2: MQTT Infrastructure (spec/02-mqtt-infrastructure.md)
- `mqtt/client.go`: Full-featured MQTT client wrapper
  - Auto-reconnect support
  - Connection callbacks and logging
  - Timeout handling
  - Clean error management
- `mqtt/topics.go`: Topic constants for all light types
- `mqtt/mock.go`: Mock publisher for unit testing

### ✅ Phase 3: LED Strip Driver (spec/03-ledstrip-driver.md)
- `drivers/ledstrip/ledstrip.go`: Complete implementation
  - RGB color control (0-255 range)
  - JSON message formatting: `{"sequence":"fill", "data":{"r":100,"g":150,"b":200}}`
  - Brightness adjustment (0-100%)
  - Preset colors (red, green, blue, white, yellow, cyan, magenta)
  - Input validation
- `drivers/ledstrip/ledstrip_test.go`: Comprehensive unit tests
  - 94.7% code coverage
  - Tests for all methods and edge cases

### ✅ Phase 4: Video Light Driver (spec/05-videolight-driver.md)
- `drivers/videolight/videolight.go`: Complete implementation
  - On/off state control
  - Brightness control (0-100%)
  - Message formatting: `set,<on>,<brightness>`
  - Support for multiple light instances
  - Input validation
- `drivers/videolight/videolight_test.go`: Comprehensive unit tests
  - 96.4% code coverage
  - Tests for all methods and edge cases

### ✅ Phase 5: LED Bar Driver (spec/04-ledbar-driver.md)
- `drivers/ledbar/ledbar.go`: Complete implementation
  - Control for 6 RGBW LEDs per section (2 sections)
  - Control for 13 white LEDs per section (2 sections)
  - Comma-separated message with 77 values
  - Section-based control
  - Bulk operations (SetAllRGBW, SetAllWhite, TurnOffAll)
  - Input validation
- `drivers/ledbar/ledbar_test.go`: Comprehensive unit tests
  - 93.2% code coverage
  - Tests for message format, all methods, and edge cases

### ✅ Phase 6: Main Orchestration (spec/06-main-orchestration.md)
- `main.go`: Complete orchestration
  - Environment variable configuration support
  - All driver instances created and managed
  - Graceful shutdown with signal handling

### ✅ Phase 7: Testing (spec/07-testing-strategy.md)
- Mock MQTT client for testing
- Unit tests for all drivers
- High code coverage (93-96% across all drivers)
- All tests passing
- Input validation testing
- Message format verification

### ✅ Phase 8: State Storage (spec/09-state-storage.md)
- `storage/database.go`: SQLite database wrapper
  - Database connection management
  - Auto-reconnect and WAL mode
  - Transaction support for atomic updates
- `storage/schema.go`: Database schema definitions
  - 4 tables: ledbars, ledbars_leds, ledstrips, videolights
  - Foreign keys and constraints
  - Index for LED bar lookups
- `storage/interface.go`: StateStore interface
- `storage/mock.go`: Mock storage for testing
- `storage/database_test.go`: Comprehensive storage tests
  - 55.6% code coverage
  - Tests for all CRUD operations

### ✅ Phase 9: Driver State Integration (spec/10-driver-state-integration.md)
- All drivers updated with StateStore support
- Automatic state persistence after MQTT publish
- State loading on initialization
- Backward compatibility maintained
- New constructors: `NewLEDStripWithState`, `NewLEDBarWithState`, `NewVideoLightWithState`
- Helper methods for LED bar channel conversion
- Video light ID mapping (database 0,1 → driver 1,2)

### ✅ Phase 10: Main Application Integration
- Database initialized on startup
- Schema and default data created automatically
- State loaded for all lights from database
- Drivers created with loaded state
- Initial state published to MQTT on startup
- Database closed cleanly on shutdown
- Environment variable support: `DB_PATH`

### ✅ Phase 11: Text User Interface (TUI)
- `tui/` package - Terminal-based interactive UI
  - Bubbletea framework for reactive UI
  - 4-section layout (LED Strip, LED Bar, Video Light 1, Video Light 2)
  - Full keyboard navigation
  - Real-time MQTT publishing and database saves
  - Log output suppressed in TUI mode to prevent display interference
- Component models for each light type
- Keyboard controls:
  - TAB/Shift+TAB for section navigation
  - Arrow keys for control selection and value adjustment
  - Shift+arrows for large value changes (±10)
  - Enter to toggle on/off states
  - ESC to exit
- Entry point: `./office_lights tui` or `TUI=1 ./office_lights`
- Uses existing driver methods - no separate MQTT handling

### ✅ Phase 12: Web User Interface
- `web/` package - Browser-based interactive UI
  - REST API with complete state transfer
  - Embedded static files (no external dependencies)
  - 2×2 grid layout (LED Strip, LED Bar, Video Light 1, Video Light 2)
  - Real-time control with visual feedback
  - Mutex protection for concurrent access
  - Polling strategy for state updates (every 3 seconds)
  - Debounced user input (300ms delay)
- Components:
  - `web/web.go` - HTTP server with embedded static files
  - `web/api.go` - GET/POST /api handlers
  - `web/state.go` - State structures, BuildState(), ApplyState(), Validate()
  - `web/static/index.html` - HTML interface with controls
  - `web/static/style.css` - Responsive dark-themed CSS
  - `web/static/app.js` - JavaScript with fetch API and polling
- API endpoints:
  - GET /api - Returns complete state as JSON
  - POST /api - Accepts and applies complete state
  - GET /health - Health check endpoint
- Entry point: `./office_lights web` or `WEB=1 ./office_lights`
- Web server runs in goroutine, doesn't block main application
- Supports desktop and mobile browsers
- Environment variable: `WEB_PORT` (default: 8080)

## Project Structure

```
office_lights/
├── main.go                          # Main orchestration
├── mqtt/
│   ├── client.go                    # MQTT client wrapper
│   ├── topics.go                    # Topic constants
│   └── mock.go                      # Mock for testing
├── drivers/
│   ├── ledstrip/
│   │   ├── ledstrip.go             # LED strip driver
│   │   └── ledstrip_test.go        # LED strip tests
│   ├── ledbar/
│   │   ├── ledbar.go               # LED bar driver
│   │   └── ledbar_test.go          # LED bar tests
│   └── videolight/
│       ├── videolight.go           # Video light driver
│       └── videolight_test.go      # Video light tests
├── storage/
│   ├── database.go                 # SQLite database operations
│   ├── schema.go                   # Database schema
│   ├── interface.go                # StateStore interface
│   ├── mock.go                     # Mock storage for testing
│   ├── database_test.go            # Storage tests
│   └── hasdata_test.go             # HasData tests
├── tui/
│   ├── tui.go                      # TUI entry point
│   ├── model.go                    # Root Bubbletea model
│   ├── update.go                   # Update function
│   ├── view.go                     # View rendering
│   ├── keys.go                     # Key bindings
│   ├── styles.go                   # Lipgloss styles
│   ├── messages.go                 # Message types
│   ├── ledstrip.go                 # LED strip component
│   ├── ledbar.go                   # LED bar component
│   └── videolight.go               # Video light component
├── web/
│   ├── web.go                      # HTTP server setup
│   ├── api.go                      # API handlers
│   ├── state.go                    # State management
│   └── static/
│       ├── index.html              # HTML interface
│       ├── style.css               # CSS styling
│       └── app.js                  # JavaScript logic
├── spec/                            # Implementation specs
├── go.mod                           # Go module
├── go.sum                           # Dependencies
├── CONFIG.md                        # Configuration guide
├── IMPLEMENTATION.md                # This file
├── README.md                        # Project description
└── .gitignore                      # Git ignore rules
```

## Testing Results

All tests pass with excellent coverage:

```
$ go test -cover ./...
ok      github.com/kevin/office_lights/drivers/ledbar      0.515s  coverage: 80.8%
ok      github.com/kevin/office_lights/drivers/ledstrip    1.222s  coverage: 90.5%
ok      github.com/kevin/office_lights/drivers/videolight  0.938s  coverage: 83.3%
ok      github.com/kevin/office_lights/storage             1.583s  coverage: 55.6%
```

Note: Driver coverage decreased slightly after adding state storage support, as the new state persistence methods are tested via storage layer tests.

## MQTT Message Formats

### LED Strip
**Topic:** `kevinoffice/ledstrip/sequence`

**Format:** JSON
```json
{
  "sequence": "fill",
  "data": {
    "r": 255,
    "g": 200,
    "b": 150
  }
}
```

### LED Bar
**Topic:** `kevinoffice/ledbar/0`

**Format:** Comma-separated values (77 values total)
- Values 0-23: First 6 RGBW LEDs (R,G,B,W × 6)
- Values 24-36: First 13 white LEDs
- Values 37-39: 3 ignored values (always 0)
- Values 40-63: Second 6 RGBW LEDs (R,G,B,W × 6)
- Values 64-76: Second 13 white LEDs

**Example:** `10,20,30,40,15,25,35,45,...,0,0,0,...`

### Video Lights
**Topics:**
- `kevinoffice/videolight/1/command/light:0`
- `kevinoffice/videolight/2/command/light:0`

**Format:** Plain text
```
set,<on>,<brightness>
```

**Examples:**
- `set,true,75` - Turn on at 75% brightness
- `set,false,0` - Turn off

## Configuration

Set via environment variables:
- `MQTT_BROKER` - Broker address (default: `tcp://localhost:1883`)
- `MQTT_CLIENT_ID` - Client ID (default: `office_lights_controller`)
- `MQTT_USERNAME` - Optional username
- `MQTT_PASSWORD` - Optional password
- `DB_PATH` - Database file path (default: `lights.sqlite3`)
- `TUI` - Enable text user interface mode (optional)
- `WEB` - Enable web interface mode (optional)
- `WEB_PORT` - Web server port (default: `8080`)

## Running the Application

### Build
```bash
go build
```

### Run
```bash
./office_lights
```

### Run with custom broker
```bash
export MQTT_BROKER="tcp://192.168.1.100:1883"
./office_lights
```

### Run with TUI (Text User Interface)
```bash
# Using command line argument
./office_lights tui

# Or using environment variable
TUI=1 ./office_lights
```

**TUI Controls:**
- TAB/Shift+TAB: Switch between light sections
- ←→: Navigate between controls
- ↑↓: Adjust values (+1/-1)
- Shift+↑↓: Adjust values (+10/-10)
- Enter: Toggle on/off (video lights)
- ESC/Ctrl+C: Exit

### Run with Web Interface
```bash
# Using command line argument (default port 8080)
./office_lights web

# Or using environment variable
WEB=1 ./office_lights

# With custom port
WEB_PORT=3000 ./office_lights web
```

**Access the interface:**
- Open browser to `http://localhost:8080` (or your custom port)
- Works on desktop and mobile browsers
- Multiple browser windows can access simultaneously

### Run tests
```bash
go test ./...
```

### Run tests with coverage
```bash
go test -v -cover ./drivers/...
```

## Key Features

### LED Strip Driver
- ✅ RGB color control (0-255)
- ✅ Brightness adjustment
- ✅ Preset colors
- ✅ Turn off functionality
- ✅ JSON message formatting
- ✅ Input validation

### LED Bar Driver
- ✅ RGBW LED control (12 total)
- ✅ White LED control (26 total)
- ✅ Section-based control
- ✅ Bulk operations
- ✅ Complex CSV message formatting
- ✅ Input validation

### Video Light Driver
- ✅ On/off control
- ✅ Brightness control (0-100%)
- ✅ Multiple instance support
- ✅ Simple message formatting
- ✅ Input validation

### MQTT Infrastructure
- ✅ Auto-reconnect
- ✅ Connection logging
- ✅ Timeout handling
- ✅ Environment variable configuration
- ✅ Clean error handling

### Main Application
- ✅ All drivers instantiated
- ✅ Graceful shutdown

## State Persistence

### Database Structure
- **File:** `lights.sqlite3` (SQLite3 database)
- **Tables:**
  - `ledbars` - LED bar instances (ID 0)
  - `ledbars_leds` - 77 channel values per LED bar
  - `ledstrips` - LED strip RGB state (ID 0)
  - `videolights` - Video light state (IDs 0, 1)

### Behavior
- State loaded on startup
- Lights restore previous state
- Initial state published to MQTT
- State saved after every change
- Database created automatically on first run

### Operations
```bash
# Backup state
cp lights.sqlite3 lights.sqlite3.backup

# Restore state
cp lights.sqlite3.backup lights.sqlite3

# Reset to defaults
rm lights.sqlite3

# Inspect database
sqlite3 lights.sqlite3 "SELECT * FROM ledstrips;"
```

## Next Steps (Future Work)

See `spec/08-future-ui-integration.md` for plans regarding:
- User interface implementation
- Stream Deck integration
- Preset scenes
- Advanced features (scheduling, animations, etc.)

## Notes

- All drivers use a Publisher interface, making them testable and flexible
- Comprehensive input validation prevents invalid values
- High test coverage ensures reliability
- Clean separation of concerns between drivers and MQTT infrastructure
- Ready for UI integration in future phases

Commit message:

Finish the multiple UI implementation

IMPLEMENTATION.md, after:

# Implementation Summary

This document summarizes the implementation of the Office Lights Control System.

## Completed Steps

### ✅ Phase 1: Project Setup (spec/01-project-setup.md)
- Go module initialized (`github.com/kevin/office_lights`)
- Project structure created with driver directories
- MQTT client library installed (Eclipse Paho v1.5.1)
- Go upgraded to v1.24.0

### ✅ Phase 2: MQTT Infrastructure (spec/02-mqtt-infrastructure.md)
- `mqtt/client.go`: Full-featured MQTT client wrapper
  - Auto-reconnect support
  - Connection callbacks and logging
  - Timeout handling
  - Clean error management
- `mqtt/topics.go`: Topic constants for all light types
- `mqtt/mock.go`: Mock publisher for unit testing

### ✅ Phase 3: LED Strip Driver (spec/03-ledstrip-driver.md)
- `drivers/ledstrip/ledstrip.go`: Complete implementation
  - RGB color control (0-255 range)
  - JSON message formatting: `{"sequence":"fill", "data":{"r":100,"g":150,"b":200}}`
  - Brightness adjustment (0-100%)
  - Preset colors (red, green, blue, white, yellow, cyan, magenta)
  - Input validation
- `drivers/ledstrip/ledstrip_test.go`: Comprehensive unit tests
  - 94.7% code coverage
  - Tests for all methods and edge cases

### ✅ Phase 4: Video Light Driver (spec/05-videolight-driver.md)
- `drivers/videolight/videolight.go`: Complete implementation
  - On/off state control
  - Brightness control (0-100%)
  - Message formatting: `set,<on>,<brightness>`
  - Support for multiple light instances
  - Input validation
- `drivers/videolight/videolight_test.go`: Comprehensive unit tests
  - 96.4% code coverage
  - Tests for all methods and edge cases

### ✅ Phase 5: LED Bar Driver (spec/04-ledbar-driver.md)
- `drivers/ledbar/ledbar.go`: Complete implementation
  - Control for 6 RGBW LEDs per section (2 sections)
  - Control for 13 white LEDs per section (2 sections)
  - Comma-separated message with 77 values
  - Section-based control
  - Bulk operations (SetAllRGBW, SetAllWhite, TurnOffAll)
  - Input validation
- `drivers/ledbar/ledbar_test.go`: Comprehensive unit tests
  - 93.2% code coverage
  - Tests for message format, all methods, and edge cases

### ✅ Phase 6: Main Orchestration (spec/06-main-orchestration.md)
- `main.go`: Complete orchestration
  - Environment variable configuration support
  - All driver instances created and managed
  - Graceful shutdown with signal handling

### ✅ Phase 7: Testing (spec/07-testing-strategy.md)
- Mock MQTT client for testing
- Unit tests for all drivers
- High code coverage (93-96% across all drivers)
- All tests passing
- Input validation testing
- Message format verification

### ✅ Phase 8: State Storage (spec/09-state-storage.md)
- `storage/database.go`: SQLite database wrapper
  - Database connection management
  - Auto-reconnect and WAL mode
  - Transaction support for atomic updates
- `storage/schema.go`: Database schema definitions
  - 4 tables: ledbars, ledbars_leds, ledstrips, videolights
  - Foreign keys and constraints
  - Index for LED bar lookups
- `storage/interface.go`: StateStore interface
- `storage/mock.go`: Mock storage for testing
- `storage/database_test.go`: Comprehensive storage tests
  - 55.6% code coverage
  - Tests for all CRUD operations

### ✅ Phase 9: Driver State Integration (spec/10-driver-state-integration.md)
- All drivers updated with StateStore support
- Automatic state persistence after MQTT publish
- State loading on initialization
- Backward compatibility maintained
- New constructors: `NewLEDStripWithState`, `NewLEDBarWithState`, `NewVideoLightWithState`
- Helper methods for LED bar channel conversion
- Video light ID mapping (database 0,1 → driver 1,2)

### ✅ Phase 10: Main Application Integration
- Database initialized on startup
- Schema and default data created automatically
- State loaded for all lights from database
- Drivers created with loaded state
- Initial state published to MQTT on startup
- Database closed cleanly on shutdown
- Environment variable support: `DB_PATH`

### ✅ Phase 11: Text User Interface (TUI)
- `tui/` package - Terminal-based interactive UI
  - Bubbletea framework for reactive UI
  - 4-section layout (LED Strip, LED Bar, Video Light 1, Video Light 2)
  - Full keyboard navigation
  - Real-time MQTT publishing and database saves
  - Log output suppressed in TUI mode to prevent display interference
- Component models for each light type
- Keyboard controls:
  - TAB/Shift+TAB for section navigation
  - Arrow keys for control selection and value adjustment
  - Shift+arrows for large value changes (±10)
  - Enter to toggle on/off states
  - ESC to exit
- Entry point: `./office_lights tui` or `TUI=1 ./office_lights`
- Uses existing driver methods - no separate MQTT handling

### ✅ Phase 12: Web User Interface
- `web/` package - Browser-based interactive UI
  - REST API with complete state transfer
  - Embedded static files (no external dependencies)
  - 2×2 grid layout (LED Strip, LED Bar, Video Light 1, Video Light 2)
  - Real-time control with visual feedback
  - Mutex protection for concurrent access
  - Polling strategy for state updates (every 3 seconds)
  - Debounced user input (300ms delay)
- Components:
  - `web/web.go` - HTTP server with embedded static files
  - `web/api.go` - GET/POST /api handlers
  - `web/state.go` - State structures, BuildState(), ApplyState(), Validate()
  - `web/static/index.html` - HTML interface with controls
  - `web/static/style.css` - Responsive dark-themed CSS
  - `web/static/app.js` - JavaScript with fetch API and polling
- API endpoints:
  - GET /api - Returns complete state as JSON
  - POST /api - Accepts and applies complete state
  - GET /health - Health check endpoint
- Entry point: `./office_lights web` or `WEB=1 ./office_lights`
- Web server runs in goroutine, doesn't block main application
- Supports desktop and mobile browsers
- Environment variable: `WEB_PORT` (default: 8080)

## Project Structure

```
office_lights/
├── main.go                          # Main orchestration
├── mqtt/
│   ├── client.go                    # MQTT client wrapper
│   ├── topics.go                    # Topic constants
│   └── mock.go                      # Mock for testing
├── drivers/
│   ├── ledstrip/
│   │   ├── ledstrip.go             # LED strip driver
│   │   └── ledstrip_test.go        # LED strip tests
│   ├── ledbar/
│   │   ├── ledbar.go               # LED bar driver
│   │   └── ledbar_test.go          # LED bar tests
│   └── videolight/
│       ├── videolight.go           # Video light driver
│       └── videolight_test.go      # Video light tests
├── storage/
│   ├── database.go                 # SQLite database operations
│   ├── schema.go                   # Database schema
│   ├── interface.go                # StateStore interface
│   ├── mock.go                     # Mock storage for testing
│   ├── database_test.go            # Storage tests
│   └── hasdata_test.go             # HasData tests
├── tui/
│   ├── tui.go                      # TUI entry point
│   ├── model.go                    # Root Bubbletea model
│   ├── update.go                   # Update function
│   ├── view.go                     # View rendering
│   ├── keys.go                     # Key bindings
│   ├── styles.go                   # Lipgloss styles
│   ├── messages.go                 # Message types
│   ├── ledstrip.go                 # LED strip component
│   ├── ledbar.go                   # LED bar component
│   └── videolight.go               # Video light component
├── web/
│   ├── web.go                      # HTTP server setup
│   ├── api.go                      # API handlers
│   ├── state.go                    # State management
│   └── static/
│       ├── index.html              # HTML interface
│       ├── style.css               # CSS styling
│       └── app.js                  # JavaScript logic
├── spec/                            # Implementation specs
├── go.mod                           # Go module
├── go.sum                           # Dependencies
├── CONFIG.md                        # Configuration guide
├── IMPLEMENTATION.md                # This file
├── README.md                        # Project description
└── .gitignore                      # Git ignore rules
```

## Testing Results

All tests pass with excellent coverage:

```
$ go test -cover ./...
ok      github.com/kevin/office_lights/drivers/ledbar      0.515s  coverage: 80.8%
ok      github.com/kevin/office_lights/drivers/ledstrip    1.222s  coverage: 90.5%
ok      github.com/kevin/office_lights/drivers/videolight  0.938s  coverage: 83.3%
ok      github.com/kevin/office_lights/storage             1.583s  coverage: 55.6%
```

Note: Driver coverage decreased slightly after adding state storage support, as the new state persistence methods are tested via storage layer tests.

## MQTT Message Formats

### LED Strip
**Topic:** `kevinoffice/ledstrip/sequence`

**Format:** JSON
```json
{
  "sequence": "fill",
  "data": {
    "r": 255,
    "g": 200,
    "b": 150
  }
}
```

### LED Bar
**Topic:** `kevinoffice/ledbar/0`

**Format:** Comma-separated values (77 values total)
- Values 0-23: First 6 RGBW LEDs (R,G,B,W × 6)
- Values 24-36: First 13 white LEDs
- Values 37-39: 3 ignored values (always 0)
- Values 40-63: Second 6 RGBW LEDs (R,G,B,W × 6)
- Values 64-76: Second 13 white LEDs

**Example:** `10,20,30,40,15,25,35,45,...,0,0,0,...`

### Video Lights
**Topics:**
- `kevinoffice/videolight/1/command/light:0`
- `kevinoffice/videolight/2/command/light:0`

**Format:** Plain text
```
set,<on>,<brightness>
```

**Examples:**
- `set,true,75` - Turn on at 75% brightness
- `set,false,0` - Turn off

## Configuration

Set via environment variables:
- `MQTT_BROKER` - Broker address (default: `tcp://localhost:1883`)
- `MQTT_CLIENT_ID` - Client ID (default: `office_lights_controller`)
- `MQTT_USERNAME` - Optional username
- `MQTT_PASSWORD` - Optional password
- `DB_PATH` - Database file path (default: `lights.sqlite3`)
- `TUI` - Enable text user interface mode (optional)
- `WEB` - Enable web interface mode (optional)
- `WEB_PORT` - Web server port (default: `8080`)

## Running the Application

### Build
```bash
go build
```

### Run
```bash
./office_lights
```

### Run with custom broker
```bash
export MQTT_BROKER="tcp://192.168.1.100:1883"
./office_lights
```

### Run with TUI (Text User Interface)
```bash
# Using command line argument
./office_lights tui

# Or using environment variable
TUI=1 ./office_lights
```

**TUI Controls:**
- TAB/Shift+TAB: Switch between light sections
- ←→: Navigate between controls
- ↑↓: Adjust values (+1/-1)
- Shift+↑↓: Adjust values (+10/-10)
- Enter: Toggle on/off (video lights)
- ESC/Ctrl+C: Exit

### Run with Web Interface
```bash
# Using command line argument (default port 8080)
./office_lights web

# Or using environment variable
WEB=1 ./office_lights

# With custom port
WEB_PORT=3000 ./office_lights web
```

**Access the interface:**
- Open browser to `http://localhost:8080` (or your custom port)
- Works on desktop and mobile browsers
- Multiple browser windows can access simultaneously

### Run Multiple UIs Simultaneously
```bash
# Run both TUI and web interface together
./office_lights tui web

# Or using environment variables
export TUI=1
export WEB=1
./office_lights
```

**Notes:**
- Both UIs run in separate goroutines
- Changes in one UI are reflected in the other immediately
- Both share the same driver instances and state
- When TUI is active, logs are suppressed (affects both UIs)

### Run tests
```bash
go test ./...
```

### Run tests with coverage
```bash
go test -v -cover ./drivers/...
```

## Key Features

### LED Strip Driver
- ✅ RGB color control (0-255)
- ✅ Brightness adjustment
- ✅ Preset colors
- ✅ Turn off functionality
- ✅ JSON message formatting
- ✅ Input validation

### LED Bar Driver
- ✅ RGBW LED control (12 total)
- ✅ White LED control (26 total)
- ✅ Section-based control
- ✅ Bulk operations
- ✅ Complex CSV message formatting
- ✅ Input validation

### Video Light Driver
- ✅ On/off control
- ✅ Brightness control (0-100%)
- ✅ Multiple instance support
- ✅ Simple message formatting
- ✅ Input validation

### MQTT Infrastructure
- ✅ Auto-reconnect
- ✅ Connection logging
- ✅ Timeout handling
- ✅ Environment variable configuration
- ✅ Clean error handling

### Main Application
- ✅ All drivers instantiated
- ✅ Graceful shutdown

## State Persistence

### Database Structure
- **File:** `lights.sqlite3` (SQLite3 database)
- **Tables:**
  - `ledbars` - LED bar instances (ID 0)
  - `ledbars_leds` - 77 channel values per LED bar
  - `ledstrips` - LED strip RGB state (ID 0)
  - `videolights` - Video light state (IDs 0, 1)

### Behavior
- State loaded on startup
- Lights restore previous state
- Initial state published to MQTT
- State saved after every change
- Database created automatically on first run

### Operations
```bash
# Backup state
cp lights.sqlite3 lights.sqlite3.backup

# Restore state
cp lights.sqlite3.backup lights.sqlite3

# Reset to defaults
rm lights.sqlite3

# Inspect database
sqlite3 lights.sqlite3 "SELECT * FROM ledstrips;"
```

## Next Steps (Future Work)

See `spec/08-future-ui-integration.md` for plans regarding:
- User interface implementation
- Stream Deck integration
- Preset scenes
- Advanced features (scheduling, animations, etc.)

## Notes

- All drivers use a Publisher interface, making them testable and flexible
- Comprehensive input validation prevents invalid values
- High test coverage ensures reliability
- Clean separation of concerns between drivers and MQTT infrastructure
- Ready for UI integration in future phases
